README.md, before:

# Data Driven Corporate Event Logistics | Unilever Sports Day Case Study

## Project Overview
**Objective:** To plan an inclusive, logistically feasible Sports Day for a Unilever manufacturing site with **over 1,000 employees**. The core challenge was to translate unknown employee preferences into a viable schedule and activity roster within a fixed timeframe.

**My Role:** Data Analyst & Project Support (within HR/People team)  
**Tools:** Microsoft 365 (Forms, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive)  
**Key Skills Demonstrated:** Survey Analytics, Data Modelling, Operational Planning, Stakeholder Communication

## The Business Problem
Planning a large-scale event without data leads to either low participation or logistical failure. Specific constraints included:
*   **Scale:** 1,000+ potential participants across multiple departments.
*   **Varied Demand:** Unknown interest levels across 10+ sporting codes (e.g., football requiring 11 people per team vs. relay requiring 4).
*   **Fixed Resources:** A single-day event with limited fields/courts and time (6-hour window).
*   **Success Metric:** Maximise participation and enjoyment while ensuring all activities run smoothly.

## My Analytical Approach

<img width="921" height="61" alt="Project_Workflow drawio" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f8a0ad7-6e02-44b5-a771-c771f98b9407" />

*End-to-end process from problem definition through to execution and documentation.*


### 1. **Data Collection & Engineering**
*   **Instrument:** Designed a structured Microsoft Forms survey distributed company-wide.
*   **Metrics Captured:**
    *   Employee interest per sporting code (multi-select).
    *   Departmental affiliation.
    *   Availability confirmation.
*   **Outcome:** Generated the primary dataset linking **demand** (interest) to **demographic** (department) for analysis.

### 2. **Data Analysis & Modelling**
*   **Tool:** Microsoft Excel (Primary analysis engine).
*   **Key Analyses Performed:**
    *   **Activity Viability Analysis:** Created a model comparing `COUNTIF` totals of interest per sport against minimum player requirements. This automatically flagged sports with insufficient sign-ups.
    *   **Departmental Participation Heatmap:** Used PivotTables to visualise interest density across departments, ensuring no team was critically under-represented.
    *   **Popularity Ranking & Resource Allocation:** Sorted activities by popularity to prioritise scheduling and allocate prime time slots to high-demand sports.
    *   **Time-Constraint Modelling:** Built a simple scheduling matrix in Excel to test how many matches/rounds of each viable sport could fit into the day.

 ### 3. Data-Driven Decision Model

The core of the analysis was a viability model built in Excel that automated the go/no-go decision for each sport based on objective thresholds.

**Key Logic Applied:**
- **Teams Possible** = `FLOOR(Interested Count / Min. Players Required, 1)`
- **Viability Rule:** Sport is viable **only if** `Teams Possible ≥ 1`
- **Decision Automation:** Conditional formatting instantly highlighted non-viable options in red

<img width="1175" height="176" alt="analysis_model_mockup" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c5b0e29-152d-472c-8499-eb42f5d4040d" />
*The decision model showing 5 approved sports and 2 rejected due to insufficient sign-ups.*

**Critical Insight:** The model flagged **basketball and cricket** for removal despite some interest (7 and 18 participants respectively) because they couldn't form minimum teams. This data-driven exclusion prevented what would have been failed activities on event day.

  ### 4. **Insights & Decision Support**
The analysis provided clear, actionable intelligence:
*   **Quantified Demand:** Identified the top 5 most popular sports and, crucially, **2 non-viable activities** that were removed from the plan, saving budget and management focus.
*   **Stakeholder Reporting:** Synthesised findings into a PowerPoint deck for HR and site leadership, visually presenting the recommendation: **"A schedule of 5 sports, with a predicted participation rate of 88% based on survey data."**
*   **Process Documentation:** All data, analysis, and final documents were centralised on OneDrive, creating an auditable trail and a template for future events.


## Impact & Outcome

<img width="837" height="191" alt="Analysis Summary" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae367379-c494-4bd4-a3e7-34b519aef3a0" />

*Executive summary showing the impact of data-driven decisions: 2 sports removed, preventing failed activities.*
*   **Informed Decision-Making:** The Excel model provided objective criteria that led to removing 2 non-viable sports, reallocating their budget and time slots to more popular activities.
*   **Operational Efficiency:** The event ran to schedule with no last-minute cancellations or resource shortages.
*   **Increased Engagement:** High participation rates were achieved as the programme reflected actual employee preferences.
*   **Legacy Asset:** The analysis model and survey framework were saved as reusable templates for future site events.

## Skills Highlighted
*   **Data Analysis & Modelling:** Transforming raw survey data into strategic insights using Excel.
*   **Problem-Solving:** Applying logical constraints (time, player numbers) to a dataset to produce a feasible solution.
*   **Visualisation & Communication:** Creating clear charts and presentations for non-technical stakeholders.
*   **Project Lifecycle Management:** Ownership from data collection through to execution support.

## Repository Guide
### `/docs` – Complete Process Documentation
- `1_project_overview.md` – Business context, problem statement, and objectives
- `2_data_collection.md` – Survey design methodology and implementation
- `3_analysis_process.md` – Analytical framework, technical approach, and modeling methodology
- `4_insights_recommendations.md` – Key findings, strategic impact, and business outcomes

### `/assets` – Visual Documentation Suite
- `project_workflow.png` – End-to-end analytics process visualization
- `analysis_summary.png` – Executive summary of key insights and decisions
- `analysis_model_mockup.png` – Technical visualization of viability modeling approach
- `workflow_explanation.md` – Detailed phase-by-phase breakdown of methodology

### `/templates` – Reusable Analytical Components
- `excel_viability_model.xlsx` – Core analytical tool with sample data and formulas
- `stakeholder_report_framework.md` – Presentation structure and communication framework

---

### Case Study Highlights:
- **End-to-End Analytics Project**: From problem definition through to implemented solution
- **Data-Driven Decision Making**: Objective viability modeling informed strategic choices
- **Measurable Impact**: 85% forecasted participation achieved with optimized resource allocation
- **Professional Documentation**: Complete methodology transparency for reproducibility

*Note: All data has been anonymized for portfolio presentation while preserving analytical integrity.*

Commit message:

Revise README for analytical framework and data note
Updated README to reflect changes in analytical framework and data sharing policy.

README.md, after:

# Data Driven Corporate Event Logistics | Unilever Sports Day Case Study

## Project Overview
**Objective:** To plan an inclusive, logistically feasible Sports Day for a Unilever manufacturing site with **over 1,000 employees**. The core challenge was to translate unknown employee preferences into a viable schedule and activity roster within a fixed timeframe.

**My Role:** Data Analyst & Project Support (within HR/People team)  
**Tools:** Microsoft 365 (Forms, Excel, PowerPoint, OneDrive)  
**Key Skills Demonstrated:** Survey Analytics, Data Modelling, Operational Planning, Stakeholder Communication

## The Business Problem
Planning a large-scale event without data leads to either low participation or logistical failure. Specific constraints included:
*   **Scale:** 1,000+ potential participants across multiple departments.
*   **Varied Demand:** Unknown interest levels across 10+ sporting codes (e.g., football requiring 11 people per team vs. relay requiring 4).
*   **Fixed Resources:** A single-day event with limited fields/courts and time (6-hour window).
*   **Success Metric:** Maximise participation and enjoyment while ensuring all activities run smoothly.

## My Analytical Approach

<img width="921" height="61" alt="Project_Workflow drawio" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2f8a0ad7-6e02-44b5-a771-c771f98b9407" />

*End-to-end process from problem definition through to execution and documentation.*


### 1. **Data Collection & Engineering**
*   **Instrument:** Designed a structured Microsoft Forms survey distributed company-wide.
*   **Metrics Captured:**
    *   Employee interest per sporting code (multi-select).
    *   Departmental affiliation.
    *   Availability confirmation.
*   **Outcome:** Generated the primary dataset linking **demand** (interest) to **demographic** (department) for analysis.

### 2. **Data Analysis & Modelling**
*   **Tool:** Microsoft Excel (Primary analysis engine).
*   **Key Analyses Performed:**
    *   **Activity Viability Analysis:** Created a model comparing `COUNTIF` totals of interest per sport against minimum player requirements. This automatically flagged sports with insufficient sign-ups.
    *   **Departmental Participation Heatmap:** Used PivotTables to visualise interest density across departments, ensuring no team was critically under-represented.
    *   **Popularity Ranking & Resource Allocation:** Sorted activities by popularity to prioritise scheduling and allocate prime time slots to high-demand sports.
    *   **Time-Constraint Modelling:** Built a simple scheduling matrix in Excel to test how many matches/rounds of each viable sport could fit into the day.

 ### 3. Data-Driven Decision Model

The core of the analysis was a viability model built in Excel that automated the go/no-go decision for each sport based on objective thresholds.

**Key Logic Applied:**
- **Teams Possible** = `FLOOR(Interested Count / Min. Players Required, 1)`
- **Viability Rule:** Sport is viable **only if** `Teams Possible ≥ 1`
- **Decision Automation:** Conditional formatting instantly highlighted non-viable options in red

<img width="1175" height="176" alt="analysis_model_mockup" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7c5b0e29-152d-472c-8499-eb42f5d4040d" />
*The decision model showing 5 approved sports and 2 rejected due to insufficient sign-ups.*

**Critical Insight:** The model flagged **basketball and cricket** for removal despite some interest (7 and 18 participants respectively) because they couldn't form minimum teams. This data-driven exclusion prevented what would have been failed activities on event day.

  ### 4. **Insights & Decision Support**
The analysis provided clear, actionable intelligence:
*   **Quantified Demand:** Identified the top 5 most popular sports and, crucially, **2 non-viable activities** that were removed from the plan, saving budget and management focus.
*   **Stakeholder Reporting:** Synthesised findings into a PowerPoint deck for HR and site leadership, visually presenting the recommendation: **"A schedule of 5 sports, with a predicted participation rate of 88% based on survey data."**
*   **Process Documentation:** All data, analysis, and final documents were centralised on OneDrive, creating an auditable trail and a template for future events.


## Impact & Outcome

<img width="837" height="191" alt="Analysis Summary" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ae367379-c494-4bd4-a3e7-34b519aef3a0" />

*Executive summary showing the impact of data-driven decisions: 2 sports removed, preventing failed activities.*
*   **Informed Decision-Making:** The Excel model provided objective criteria that led to removing 2 non-viable sports, reallocating their budget and time slots to more popular activities.
*   **Operational Efficiency:** The event ran to schedule with no last-minute cancellations or resource shortages.
*   **Increased Engagement:** High participation rates were achieved as the programme reflected actual employee preferences.
*   **Legacy Asset:** The analysis model and survey framework were saved as reusable templates for future site events.

## Skills Highlighted
*   **Data Analysis & Modelling:** Transforming raw survey data into strategic insights using Excel.
*   **Problem-Solving:** Applying logical constraints (time, player numbers) to a dataset to produce a feasible solution.
*   **Visualisation & Communication:** Creating clear charts and presentations for non-technical stakeholders.
*   **Project Lifecycle Management:** Ownership from data collection through to execution support.

## Repository Guide
### `/docs` – Complete Process Documentation
- `1_project_overview.md` – Business context, problem statement, and objectives
- `2_data_collection.md` – Survey design methodology and implementation
- `3_analysis_process.md` – Analytical framework, technical approach, and modeling methodology
- `4_insights_recommendations.md` – Key findings, strategic impact, and business outcomes

### `/assets` – Visual Documentation Suite
- `project_workflow.png` – End-to-end analytics process visualization
- `analysis_summary.png` – Executive summary of key insights and decisions
- `analysis_model_mockup.png` – Technical visualization of viability modeling approach
- `workflow_explanation.md` – Detailed phase-by-phase breakdown of methodology

### `/templates` – Reusable Analytical Components
- `analytical_framework.md` – Core modeling methodology and formula implementation
- `stakeholder_report_framework.md` – Presentation structure and communication framework

---

### Case Study Highlights:
- **End-to-End Analytics Project**: From problem definition through to implemented solution
- **Data-Driven Decision Making**: Objective viability modeling informed strategic choices
- **Measurable Impact**: 85% forecasted participation achieved with optimized resource allocation
- **Professional Documentation**: Complete methodology transparency for reproducibility

*Note: The Excel viability model contains proprietary company data and cannot be shared publicly. The analytical framework and methodology are fully documented above.*
